[Docs] Add documentation and examples for `Figure` (#524)
mckinsey/vizro: vizro-core/docs/pages/user-guides/custom-figures.md

> # How to create custom Figures

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# How to create custom figures
```

> This guide explains how to create custom figures, which is useful when you need a figure that reacts to controls and actions.

Reviewer: If you've used "custom figures" here, why capitalise it above in the title?

I think it needs to be consistent, but am not sure which you'd want to do -- probably lower case throughout? See above suggestion if so, and accept.

There are two use cases where you might want to use custom figures:

> 1. when you need a figure that isn't available in our pre-defined figure functions [`vizro.figures`](../API-reference/figure-callables.md) or
> 2. when you need a figure that doesn't fit into our predefined components like [`Graph`][vizro.models.Graph], [`Table`][vizro.models.Table] or [`AgGrid`][vizro.models.AgGrid].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* when you need a figure that isn't available in our pre-defined figure functions [`vizro.figures`](../API-reference/figure-callables.md) or
* when you need a figure that doesn't fit into our predefined components like [`Graph`][vizro.models.Graph], [`Table`][vizro.models.Table] or [`AgGrid`][vizro.models.AgGrid].
```

Reviewer: Not a sequence so doesn't need numbered bullets.

> For this, similar to how one would create a [custom chart](../user-guides/custom-charts.md), do the following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use the following approach, which is similar to creation of a [custom chart](../user-guides/custom-charts.md), do the following:
```

> - Define a function that returns a `Dash` component.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Define a function that returns a `Dash` component.
```

> - Decorate it with the `@capture("figure")` respectively.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Decorate it with the `@capture("figure")` respectively.
```

> - The function must accept a `data_frame` argument (of type `pandas.DataFrame`).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. The function must accept a `data_frame` argument (of type `pandas.DataFrame`).
```

> - The figure should be derived from and require only one `pandas.DataFrame` (for example, any further dataframes added through other arguments will not react to dashboard components such as `Filter`).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. The figure should be derived from and require only one `pandas.DataFrame`. Additional dataframes from other arguments will not react to dashboard components such as `Filter`.
```

There are two use cases where you might want to use custom figures:

* You need a figure that isn't available in our pre-defined figure functions [`vizro.figures`](../API-reference/figure-callables.md).
* You need a figure that doesn't fit into the existing predefined components ([`Graph`][vizro.models.Graph], [`Table`][vizro.models.Table] or [`AgGrid`][vizro.models.AgGrid]).

Use the following approach, which is similar to creation of a [custom chart](../user-guides/custom-charts.md), do the following:

1. Define a function that returns a `Dash` component.
2. Decorate it with the `@capture("figure")` respectively.
3. The function must accept a `data_frame` argument (of type `pandas.DataFrame`).
4. The figure should be derived from and require only one `pandas.DataFrame`. Additional dataframes from other arguments will not react to dashboard components such as `Filter`.

<!-- vale off -->
The example below shows how to create a custom figure — a list of cards created from a `pandas.DataFrame` where the
number of cards displayed dynamically adjusts based on a `vm.Parameter`.

> !!! example "Dynamic number of cards"

Reviewer 2: I really like this example but it's quite advanced because it's doing several complicated things:
* setup of mock data (if you can find a better way to do this using some built in `px.data` dataset then please do so)
* custom CSS
* function returns multiple Dash components
* parameter to control a function

Painful though it may be to write 😅 I think we should have a total of three examples on this page which increase in complexity and show different things:
1. a custom KPI card that basically copies and pastes code from our API reference docs and then modifies a simple thing, like you suggest in https://github.com/mckinsey/vizro/pull/529/files#r1644213316
2. a really simple example that writes a whole new non-KPI card Dash component that reacts to a `Filter` (lmk if you need help thinking of some example) 
3. this multiple cards example

Author: Alright, sounds good. On two, we could do a simple html.H3 component that dynamically changes the title based on a filter. I think this would the simplest example, especially if we don't want to have another card example 😄

Reviewer 2: Yeah, I think the challenge is to come up with something that really requires `data_frame` and doesn't require a `dbc.Card` 🤔 (Maybe in the future we will make this no longer a requirement since you might like a component that reacts to a parameter and isn't connected to a dataframe, but let's leave it as required for now anyway.)

e.g. if we show something like `len(data_frame)` then it's probably best shown just in a KPI (or non-KPI) card. So if we did something like `return html.H3(f"Your data has {len(data_frame)} rows")` then maybe it will always look kind of stupid compared to just putting it in a `dbc.Card`. 

So maybe my idea of `Filter` + non-card + `data_frame` required is actually stupid here and will just result in a really weird convoluted example 😅

Author: I don't think your idea is _that_ stupid 😄 To have a title that dynamically changes based on a filter/parameter is not that uncommon. I can think of a use-case e.g. where you have a business dashboard and you want to dynamically change the title to reflect the department you are filtering on e.g. "Summary for Department {XXX}".

It does make more sense with other components on the page, but I think adding that simple example with an html.Div might be useful already, just to show that you can return any Dash component not just a dbc.Card 😄

Reviewer 2: Cool, sounds good 😀 The problem with updating text based on the filter value is that the value itself isn't actually available directly, you'd have to do `data_frame[column].something`, which also feels a bit awkward and would maybe be more cleanly done through an action. But probably it's fine just as an example to demonstrate the sort of thing you can do.

                    "Sed diam nonumy eirmod tempor invidunt ut labore et dolore magna aliquyam erat.",
                    "Sed diam voluptua. At vero eos et accusam et justo no duo dolores et ea rebum.",
                    "Stet clita kasd gubergren, no sea takimata sanctus est Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet.",
                    "Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consetetur sadipscing no sea est elitr dolor sit amet.",
                    "Sed diam nonumy eirmod tempor invidunt ut labore et dolore magna aliquyam erat.",
                ]
                * 2
            }
        )

        @capture("figure")  # (1)!
        def multiple_cards(data_frame: pd.DataFrame, n_rows: Optional[int] = 1) -> List[vm.Card]:  # (2)!
            """Creates a list with a variable number of `vm.Card` components from the provided data_frame.

            Args:
                data_frame: Data frame containing the data.
                n_rows: Number of rows to use from the data_frame. Defaults to 1.

            Returns:
                List of dbc.Card objects generated from the data.

            """
            texts = data_frame.head(n_rows)["text"]

>             return [vm.Card(text=f"### Card #{i+1}\n{text}").build() for i, text in enumerate(texts)]

Reviewer 2: This doesn't match the type hint! `vm.Card.build` returns `dbc.Card`.

When I was writing this example code I thought about two ways of doing it:
1. do `vm.Card.build`: means you don't need to understand any more Dash, just Vizro, but it uses the `build` method which maybe looks weird and means creating many new models on the fly
2. do `dbc.Card` directly: means you need to understand Dash but doesn't add the complications of Vizro models

In the case of answering the user I chose to go for 1, but here I think we should probably go for option 2. Otherwise it's not clear how you can use a custom figure to inject an arbitrary dash component - it just looks like you are still restricted to vizro models.

We should also consider whether we want to encourage people to return a list of Dash components or whether they should actually be forced to return one. Probably we should just restrict to only one like we do everywhere else (even though a list would probably still work fine because it just gets put in a html.Div or dcc.Loading or whatever afterewards).

So I'd suggest something like this:
```suggestion
            return html.Div(dbc.Card(dcc.Markdown(f"### Card #{i+1}\n{text}")) for i, text in enumerate(texts))
            # or if we think allowing list is ok
            return [dbc.Card(dcc.Markdown(f"### Card #{i+1}\n{text}")) for i, text in enumerate(texts)]
```
and change the type hint accordingly.

Author: Ah, yes - that makes sense!

        page = vm.Page(
            title="Page with variable number of cards",
            components=[vm.Figure(id="my-figure", figure=multiple_cards(data_frame=df))],  # (3)!
            controls=[
                vm.Parameter(
                    targets=["my-figure.n_rows"],
                    selector=vm.Slider(min=2, max=12, step=2, value=8, title="Number of cards to display"),

>                 ),

Reviewer 2: This could do with a `(4)!` to explain the `n_rows` thing and link to the page on parameters.

# How to create custom figures

This guide explains how to create custom figures, which is useful when you need a component that reacts to
[filter](filters.md) and [parameter](parameters.md) controls.

### When to use a custom figure
You should use custom figures if **both** of the following conditions are met:

- You need a figure that doesn't fit into the existing predefined components ([`Graph`][vizro.models.Graph], [`Table`][vizro.models.Table] or [`AgGrid`][vizro.models.AgGrid]).
- You need a figure that isn't available in our pre-defined figure functions [`vizro.figures`](../API-reference/figure-callables.md).

### Steps to create a custom figure

1. Define a function that returns a [Dash component](https://dash.plotly.com/#open-source-component-libraries).
2. Decorate it with `@capture("figure")`.
3. The function must accept a `data_frame` argument (of type `pandas.DataFrame`).
4. The figure should be derived from and require only one `pandas.DataFrame`. Dataframes from other arguments
will not react to dashboard controls such as [`Filter`](filters.md).

> The below examples can be used as a base to build more sophisticated figures.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following examples can be used as a base to build more sophisticated figures.
```

# How to create custom figures

This guide explains how to create custom figures, which is useful when you need a component that reacts to
[filter](filters.md) and [parameter](parameters.md) controls.

> ### When to use a custom figure

Author: Ah okay, I took it over from the custom-charts.md -  we should probably consolidate these at some point 😬

You should use custom figures if **both** of the following conditions are met:

- You need a figure that doesn't fit into the existing predefined components ([`Graph`][vizro.models.Graph], [`Table`][vizro.models.Table] or [`AgGrid`][vizro.models.AgGrid]).
- You need a figure that isn't available in our pre-defined figure functions [`vizro.figures`](../API-reference/figure-callables.md).

### Steps to create a custom figure

> 1. Define a function that returns a [Dash component](https://dash.plotly.com/#open-source-component-libraries).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Define a function that returns a [Dash component](https://dash.plotly.com/#open-source-component-libraries). This can, but does not need to, be based on code in our pre-defined figure functions in [`vizro.figures`](../API-reference/figure-callables.md).
```

2. Decorate it with `@capture("figure")`.
3. The function must accept a `data_frame` argument (of type `pandas.DataFrame`).
4. The figure should be derived from and require only one `pandas.DataFrame`. Dataframes from other arguments
will not react to dashboard controls such as [`Filter`](filters.md).

The below examples can be used as a base to build more sophisticated figures.

### Examples of custom figures

#### Custom KPI card
If you wish to change the design or content of our existing KPI (key performance indicator) cards from
[`vizro.figures`](../API-reference/figure-callables.md), you can do so by following the steps described above.

> For instance, if you prefer the icon to be positioned on the right side of the title instead of the left,
> adjust the return statement of the function decorated with `@capture("figure")`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For instance, to make a KPI card with the icon positioned on the right side of the title instead of the left, copy and paste the [source code of `kpi_card`](API-reference/figure-callables/#vizro.figures.kpi_card) and
adjust the return statement of the function.
```

            title="Create your own KPI Card",
            layout=vm.Layout(grid=[[0, 1, -1, -1]] + [[-1, -1, -1, -1]] * 3),  # (4)!
            components=[
                vm.Figure(
                    figure=kpi_card(  # (5)!
                        data_frame=tips,
                        value_column="tip",
                        value_format="${value:.2f}",
                        icon="shopping_cart",
                        title="Default KPI Card",
                    )
                ),
                vm.Figure(
                    figure=custom_kpi_card(  # (6)!
                        data_frame=tips,
                        value_column="tip",
                        value_format="${value:.2f}",
                        icon="payment",
                        title="Custom KPI Card",
                    )
                ),
            ],
        )

        dashboard = vm.Dashboard(pages=[page])
        Vizro().build(dashboard).run()
        ```

        1. Here we decorate our custom figure function with the `@capture("figure")` decorator.
        2. The custom figure function needs to have a `data_frame` argument and return a `Dash` component.

>         3. We adjust the return statement to include the icon on the right side of the title.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        3. We adjust the return statement to include the icon on the right side of the title. This is achieved by swapping the order of the `html.H2` and `html.P` compared to the original `kpi_card`.
```
(I think that's the only change?)

        from dash import html
        from vizro import Vizro
        from vizro.models.types import capture

        df = pd.DataFrame({"names": ["Emma", "Jack", "Sophia", "Ethan", "Mia"]})

        @capture("figure")  # (1)!
        def dynamic_html_header(data_frame: pd.DataFrame, column: str) -> html.H2:  # (2)!
            """Creates a HTML header that dynamically updates based on controls."""
            return html.H2(f"Good morning, {data_frame[column].iloc[0]}! ☕ ⛅")  # (3)!

        page = vm.Page(
            title="Dynamic HTML header",
            components=[vm.Figure(figure=dynamic_html_header(data_frame=df, column="names"))],  # (4)!
            controls=[vm.Filter(column="names", selector=vm.RadioItems(title="Select a name"))],
        )

        dashboard = vm.Dashboard(pages=[page])
        Vizro().build(dashboard).run()
        ```

        1. Here we decorate our custom figure function with the `@capture("figure")` decorator.
        2. The custom figure function needs to have a `data_frame` argument and return a `Dash` component.
        3. We return a `html.H2` component that dynamically updates based on the selected name from the filter.

>         4. Our custom figure function `custom_kpi_card` now needs to be passed on to the `vm.Figure`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        4. Our custom figure function `dynamic_html_header` now needs to be passed on to the `vm.Figure`.
```

number of cards displayed dynamically adjusts based on a `vm.Parameter`.

<!-- vale off -->
!!! example "Dynamic number of cards"
    === "app.py"
        ```py
        from typing import Optional

        import dash_bootstrap_components as dbc
        import pandas as pd
        import vizro.models as vm
        from dash import dcc, html
        from vizro import Vizro
        from vizro.models.types import capture

        df = pd.DataFrame(
            {
                "text": [
                            "Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consetetur sadipscing no sea elitr sed diam nonumy.",
                            "Sed diam nonumy eirmod tempor invidunt ut labore et dolore magna aliquyam erat.",
                            "Sed diam voluptua. At vero eos et accusam et justo no duo dolores et ea rebum.",
                            "Stet clita kasd gubergren, no sea takimata sanctus est Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet.",
                            "Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consetetur sadipscing no sea est elitr dolor sit amet.",
                            "Sed diam nonumy eirmod tempor invidunt ut labore et dolore magna aliquyam erat.",
                        ]

>                         * 2

Reviewer 2: This is super ugly, even if it's gone through black. 😱 I would un-black it or rewrite the dataframe somehow to make it easier to see, like just break it down:
```
text = [
   "blah", 
   "blah"
]
df = pd.DataFrame({"text": text * 2})
```

            }
        )

        @capture("figure")  # (1)!
        def multiple_cards(data_frame: pd.DataFrame, n_rows: Optional[int] = 1) -> html.Div:  # (2)!
            """Creates a list with a variable number of `vm.Card` components from the provided data_frame.

            Args:
                data_frame: Data frame containing the data.
                n_rows: Number of rows to use from the data_frame. Defaults to 1.

            Returns:
                html.Div with a list of dbc.Card objects generated from the data.

            """
            texts = data_frame.head(n_rows)["text"]
            return html.Div(

>                 [dbc.Card(dcc.Markdown(f"### Card #{i + 1}\n{text}")) for i, text in enumerate(texts)],

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
                [dbc.Card(dcc.Markdown(f"### Card #{i}\n{text}")) for i, text in enumerate(texts, 1)],
```
